The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Most cats adore sardines.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Female cats are polyestrous
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Female felines are \superfecund
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
